docs: documenting using pymapdl on clusters (#3466)
ansys/pymapdl: doc/source/user_guide/hpc/troubleshooting.rst

Debugging jobs
--------------

> - Use ``--output`` and ``--error`` directives in batch scripts to captures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use ``--output`` and ``--error`` directives in batch scripts to capture
```

> - Use ``--output`` and ``--error`` directives in batch scripts to captures
>   standard output and error messages to specific files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use ``--output`` and ``--error`` directives in batch scripts to capture
  standard output and error messages to specific files:
```

  .. code-block:: bash

      #!/bin/bash
      #SBATCH --job-name=ansys_job            # Job name
      #SBATCH --partition=qsmall              # Specify the queue/partition name
      #SBATCH --output=ansys_job.out          # Standard output file
      #SBATCH --error=ansys_job.err           # Standard error file

      source /home/user/pymapdl/.venv/bin/activate
      python /home/user/pymapdl.py

- Check SLURM logs for error messages and debugging information.
- It is also good idea to print the environment variables in your bash script, using 

>   ``printenv``. Additionally, you can filter them using ``grep``.

Reviewer: Best practice is to follow a code entity with a noun descriptor. I'm not sure in ``printenv`` and ``grep`` are commands or apps. I'll allow you to add the appropriate nouns after these two code entities.

Author: Done!

  .. code-block:: bash

      #!/bin/bash
      #SBATCH --job-name=ansys_job            # Job name
      #SBATCH --partition=qsmall              # Specify the queue/partition name
      #SBATCH --output=ansys_job.out          # Standard output file
      #SBATCH --error=ansys_job.err           # Standard error file

      printenv | grep "PYMAPDL"  # Print env vars which contains 'PYMAPDL'
      printenv | grep "SLURM"  # Print env vars which contains 'SLURM'
      source /home/user/pymapdl/.venv/bin/activate
      python /home/user/pymapdl.py

- Use PyMAPDL logging to printout valuable information. To activate this, see
  :ref:`ref_debug_pymapdl`.

> - In case you need more help, visit :ref:`ref_troubleshooting`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you need more help, see :ref:`ref_troubleshooting`.
```

--------------------------------------------
If there is an error while testing the Python installation, it might mean 
that the Python environment is not accessible to the compute nodes.
For example, given the following *bash* script `test.sh`:

.. code-block:: bash

   source /home/user/.venv/bin/activate
   python -c "from ansys.mapdl import core as pymapdl; pymapdl.report()"

> The following output is shown after running in the terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following output is shown after running this script in the terminal:
```

.. code-block:: console

    user@machine:~$ srun test.sh

    Testing Python!
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "<string>", line 1, in <module>
    ImportError: No module named ansys.mapdl

> As the output shows, PyMAPDL could not be found, meaning that either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the output shows, PyMAPDL could not be found, indicating one of the following problems:
```

* The virtual environment does not have PyMAPDL installed.
  See :ref:`ref_install_pymapdl_on_hpc`.

* Or the script did not properly activate the virtual environment
  (``/home/user/.venv``).

> For the second reason, there could be a number of reasons.
> One of them is that the system Python distribution used to create
> the virtual environment is not accessible from the compute nodes
> due to one of these reasons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second problem can occur due to a number of reasons.
One of them is that the system Python distribution used to create
the virtual environment is not accessible from the compute nodes
because of one of these situations:
```
Tried to rewrite to avoid the use of so many "reasons"!

Author: Trueee.. sounds so much better now!

- The virtual environment has been created in a directory that is
  not accessible from the nodes. In this case, your terminal might
  also show that the ``activate`` file could not be found.

  .. code-block:: console

     user@machine:~$ srun test.sh
     Testing Python!

>      bash: .venv/bin/activate: No such file or directory

Author: Good catch. However, SLUR is only for Linux systems, hence I would not expect this to be run on Windows :)

  Depending on your terminal configuration, the preceding error might be
  sufficient to exit the terminal process, or not. 
  If not, the execution continues, and the subsequent ``python`` call is
  executed using the default python executable.

>   It is very likely that the default ``python`` executable does not have
>   PyMAPDL installed, hence the ``ImportError`` error showed preceding might
>   appear too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It is very likely that the default Python executable does not have
  PyMAPDL installed. Hence the ``ImportError`` error might
  appear too.
```

- The virtual environment has been created from a Python executable that is
  not available to the compute nodes. Hence, the virtual environment is not
  activated.
  For example, you might be creating the virtual environment Using

>   Python 3.10, but only Python 3.8 is available from the compute nodes.

Author: Well it is just an example. Clusters tend to use very old Python versions. By the way, I should document when they have a non-supported version.

  You can test which Python executable the cluster is using by starting an
  interactive session in a compute node with this code to list all commands

>   which starts with ``python``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  that start with ``python``:
```

.. code-block:: console

    user@machine:~$ srun --pty /bin/bash
    user@compute_node_01:~$ compgen -c | grep python

.. the approach to solve this comes from:
   https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64188693/problem-with-python-environment-and-slurm-srun-sbatch

> It should be noticed the preceding approach assumes that all the nodes have similar
> configuration, hence all of them should have the same Python installations
> available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should be noted that the preceding approach assumes that all the nodes have similar
configurations. Hence, all of them should have the same Python installations
available.
```

**For development purposes only**

In certain HPC environments the possibility of installing a different Python
version is limited for security reasons.
In such cases, the Python distribution available in the Ansys installation
can be used.

> This Python distribution is a customized Python (CPython) version for Ansys
> products use only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Python distribution is a customized Python (CPython) version for use only by Ansys
products.
```

> Its use is **discouraged** except for very advanced users and special use
> cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its use is **discouraged** unless you are a very advanced user or have a special use
case.
```

In Ansys 2024 R1 and later, the unified installer includes CPython 3.10.

> Earlier versions include CPython 3.7

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Earlier Ansys versions include CPython 3.7
```
